---
title: Vite 5.1 is out!
url: https://vite.dev/blog/announcing-vite5-1
date: '2024-02-08'
author: The Vite Team
feed_url: https://vite.dev/blog.rss
---
Vite 5.1 is out! ​ February 8, 2024 Vite 5 was released last November, and it represented another big leap for Vite and the ecosystem. A few weeks ago we celebrated 10 million weekly npm downloads and 900 contributors to the Vite repo. Today, we're excited to announce the release of Vite 5.1. Quick links: Docs , Changelog Docs in other languages: 简体中文 , 日本語 , Español , Português , 한국어 , Deutsch Try Vite 5.1 online in StackBlitz: vanilla , vue , react , preact , lit , svelte , solid , qwik . If you're new to Vite, we suggest reading first the Getting Started and Features guides. To stay up to date, follow us on X or Mastodon . Vite Runtime API ​ Vite 5.1 adds experimental support for a new Vite Runtime API. It allows running any code by processing it with Vite plugins first. It is different from server.ssrLoadModule because the runtime implementation is decoupled from the server. This lets library and framework authors implement their own layer of communication between the server and the runtime. This new API is intended to replace Vite's current SSR primitives once it is stable. The new API brings many benefits: Support for HMR during SSR. It is decoupled from the server, so there is no limit on how many clients can use a single server - every client has its own module cache (you can even communicate with it how you want - using message channel/fetch call/direct function call/websocket). It doesn't depend on any node/bun/deno built-in APIs, so it can run in any environment. It's easy to integrate with tools that have their own mechanism to run code (you can provide a runner to use eval instead of new AsyncFunction for example). The initial idea was proposed by Pooya Parsa and implemented by Anthony Fu as the vite-node package to power Nuxt 3 Dev SSR and later also used as the base for Vitest . So the general idea of vite-node has been battle-tested for quite some time now. This is a new iteration of the API by Vladimir Sheremet , who had already re-implemented vite-node in Vitest and took the learnings to make the API even more powerful and flexible when adding it to Vite Core. The PR was one year in the makings, you can see the evolution and discussions with ecosystem maintainers here . INFO The Vite Runtime API evolved into the Module Runner API, released in Vite 6 as part of the Environment API . Features ​ Improved support for .css?url ​ Import CSS files as URLs now works reliably and correctly. This was the last remaining hurdle in Remix's move to Vite. See ( #15259 ). build.assetsInlineLimit now supports a callback ​ Users can now provide a callback that returns a boolean to opt-in or opt-out of inlining for specific assets. If undefined is returned, the default logic applies. See ( #15366 ). Improved HMR for circular import ​ In Vite 5.0, accepted modules within circular imports always triggered a full page reload even if they can be handled fine in the client. This is now relaxed to allow HMR to apply without a full page reload, but if any error happens during HMR, the page will be reloaded. See ( #15118 ). Support ssr.external: true to externalize all SSR packages ​ Historically, Vite externalizes all packages except for linked packages. This new option can be used to force externalize all packages including linked packages too. This is handy in tests within monorepos where we want to emulate the usual case of all packages externalized, or when using ssrLoadModule to load an arbitrary file and we want to always external packages as we don't care about HMR. See ( #10939 ). Expose close method in the preview server ​ The preview server now exposes a close method, which will properly teardown the server including all opened socket connections. See ( #15630 ). Performance improvements ​ Vite keeps getting faster with each release, and Vite 5.1 is packed with performance improvements. We measured the loading time for 10K modules (25 level deep tree) using vite-dev-server-perf for all minor versions from Vite 4.0. This is a good benchmark to measure the effect of Vite's bundle-less approach. Each module is a small TypeScript file with a counter and imports to other files in the tree, so this mostly measuring the time it takes to do the requests a separate modules. In Vite 4.0, loading 10K modules took 8 seconds on a M1 MAX. We had a breakthrough in Vite 4.3 were we focused on performance , and we were able to load them in 6.35 seconds. In Vite 5.1, we managed to do another performance leap. Vite is now serving the 10K modules in 5.35 seconds. The results of this benchmark run on Headless Puppeteer and are a good way to compare versions. They don't represent the time as experienced by users though. When running the same 10K modules in an Incognito window is Chrome, we have: | 10K Modules           | Vite 5.0 | Vite 5.1 |
|
